South Africa says it's lodged an urgent
request with the international court of
justice over Israel's military
operations and Rafa it's asked the un's
top Court to consider if an Israeli
ground operation in Rafa would require
judges to use their powers in order to
prevent further breaches of Palestinian
rights you recall last month South
Africa brought a case accusing Israel of
genocide in Gaza judges later ruled that
Israel must take specific actions to
prevent that let's speak to fam Miller
she's across all of this for us from
Johannesburg for me to explain this move
by South Africa what has the presidency
done
here well you've just outlined the some
of the orders that were given about
three weeks ago and this is an extension
of that and the department of
international relations in South Africa
has said that their uh request to the
international court of justice is based
on uh rule 71
75.1 where it can approach approach the
court for an urgent order without having
to have another hearing and that the
court could use its own discretion given
what is happening in Rafa and given the
urgency of the situation and to prevent
a further loss of life and as the
department of international relations
has said um the court should consider
additional measures because of the
urgency which we had pointed out and the
risk of imminent harm to the rights of
Palestinians there's always been a
concern around implementation of that
original order by the icj in terms of uh
preventing Israel preventing the loss of
Civilian lives the provision of
humanitarian Aid so while that order was
given there's always been concern around
monitoring and implementation and if
Israel would pull back which we haven't
seen yet and South Africa is saying that
Israel is already in breach of the order
that was given several weeks ago and so
wants the court to put in place
additional measures what those measures
are is unclear but we know that Africa
is asking for a declaration that
ultimately would protect Palestinian
lives for Miller there with the latest
on that move from South Africa for us
from Johannesburg thanks for MEA